Diverticulitis is an inflammation of diverticula,
or pockets that form in the lining of the intestine.
These pockets can form anywhere in the large intestine,
but are most commonly found in the sigmoid colon.
The presence of these tiny bulges or pockets in the colon
is a condition known as diverticulosis,
which on it’s own usually doesn’t cause
any symptoms or need to be treated.
However, these pockets tend to get inflamed
or obstructed with stool or other foreign material.
Once inflamed, it becomes the condition, diverticulitis.
Diverticula form in weakened areas of your colon’s walls.
As pressure builds inside the colon
the weak areas bulge and create pockets.
These pockets are very common and increases with age.
Diverticulosis occurs in 10%
of people over the age of 40
and 50% of people over age 60.
And it affects almost everyone over age 80.
Common symptoms of diverticulitis include:
Pain and tenderness in the left lower side of the abdomen
Nausea and vomiting
Fever and chills
The best way to prevent diverticulosis
and diverticulitis is to eat more fiber
and drink plenty of water.
Avoid constipation and straining.
Having regular bowel movements,
which are softer and move quickly
through the colon is important
for preventing diverticular disease.